Vamsi Mokkapati
404-464-206
CS 111, Project 1A
TA: Zhaoxing Bu

Description of included files:

lab1a.c:

This is my code to make both a character-at-a-time, full duplex I/O, and a
mechanism to pass input and output between a terminal and a shell. Without
the --shell option, it can put the console into non-canonical mode, and write
any received characters back to the console, one at a time. When run without
any options, it will also successfully map any carriage returns <cr> or newlines
<lf> received into <cr><lf>. I tested to make sure the code did this correctly
by running the exectuble and redirecting it to a file: "./lab1a > file.txt".
After putting contents into the file, I used "od -ta file.txt" to check that
every line of text was followed by "cr nl".

With the --shell option, my code can use fork() to make a new process and
exec a shell whose standard output are piped to the terminal. After simply
calling "./lab1a --shell", I can use commands like "ls", "pwd", "cd ..", and other
bash commands to test the shell functionality. Since I used a nested while loop
to check if my set buffer size was being exceeded and call the read system call
accordingly, I think my program will perform as expected, and there are no
limitations of my program I know of. In the shell mode, I also used functions
like waitpid, WIFEXITED, and WIFSIGNALED to report the shell's exit status on
exit.

Two late days were used to complete the lab1a.c file, since I started late (Monday),
and had trouble getting my read_and_write function to work with the --shell option.
I was consistently getting no characters to be written to the screen when using
the --shell option, and it took me a while to realize that I had to write to both
the terminal and the shell when my write file descriptor had a value that was not 1.

Makefile

The Makefile supports the "make clean" argument to clean all files in the folder
except lab1a.c, Makefile, and README, and the "make dist" argument to create the
lab1a-404464206.tar.gz tarball. I tested this file by running those commands
respectively, and making sure they create or delete the files they're supposed to.

README

This README describes all my included files, their functionality,  and how I
proceeded to complete this project.